README.md, before:

# [WireGuard](https://www.wireguard.com/) for Windows

This is a fully-featured WireGuard client for Windows that uses [Wintun](https://www.wintun.net/).

If you just want to build and install this from source, but don't care about doing any form of real development with it, simply clone this repo, and then double click on `quickinstall.bat` and stop reading this document. If you do care about doing real development, don't double click that, and instead read onwards.

### Building

Windows 10 64-bit or Windows Server 2019, and Git for Windows is required. The build script will take care of downloading, verifying, and extracting the right versions of the various dependencies:

```
C:\Projects> git clone https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-windows
C:\Projects> cd wireguard-windows
C:\Projects\wireguard-windows> build
```

### Running

After you've built the application, run `amd64\wireguard.exe` or `x86\wireguard.exe` to install the manager service and show the UI.

```
C:\Projects\wireguard-windows> amd64\wireguard.exe
```

Since WireGuard requires the Wintun driver to be installed, and this generally requires a valid Microsoft signature, you may benefit from first installing a release of WireGuard for Windows from the official [wireguard.com](https://www.wireguard.com/install/) builds, which bundles a Microsoft-signed Wintun, and then subsequently run your own wireguard.exe.

### Optional: Creating the Installer

The installer build script will take care of downloading, verifying, and extracting the right versions of the various dependencies:

```
C:\Projects\wireguard-windows> cd installer
C:\Projects\wireguard-windows\installer> build
```

### Optional: Signing Binaries

Add a file called `sign.bat` in the root of this repository with these contents, or similar:

```
set SigningCertificate=DF98E075A012ED8C86FBCF14854B8F9555CB3D45
set TimestampServer=http://timestamp.digicert.com
```

After, run the above `build` commands as usual, from a shell that has [`signtool.exe`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/SecCrypto/signtool) in its `PATH`, such as the Visual Studio 2017 command prompt.

### Alternative: Building from Linux

You must first have Go ≥1.12, Mingw, and ImageMagick installed.

```
$ sudo apt install mingw-w64 golang-go
$ git clone https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-windows
$ cd wireguard-windows
$ make
```

You can deploy the 64-bit build to an SSH host specified by the `DEPLOYMENT_HOST` environment variable (default "winvm") to the remote directory specified by the `DEPLOYMENT_PATH` environment variable (default "Desktop") by using the `deploy` target:

```
$ make deploy
```

Commit message:

README: avoid confusion about downloads

README.md, after:

# [WireGuard](https://www.wireguard.com/) for Windows

***If you've come here looking to simply run WireGuard for Windows, [you may download it here](https://www.wireguard.com/install/).***

This is a fully-featured WireGuard client for Windows that uses [Wintun](https://www.wintun.net/).

### Building

Windows 10 64-bit or Windows Server 2019, and Git for Windows is required. The build script will take care of downloading, verifying, and extracting the right versions of the various dependencies:

```
C:\Projects> git clone https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-windows
C:\Projects> cd wireguard-windows
C:\Projects\wireguard-windows> build
```

### Running

After you've built the application, run `amd64\wireguard.exe` or `x86\wireguard.exe` to install the manager service and show the UI.

```
C:\Projects\wireguard-windows> amd64\wireguard.exe
```

Since WireGuard requires the Wintun driver to be installed, and this generally requires a valid Microsoft signature, you may benefit from first installing a release of WireGuard for Windows from the official [wireguard.com](https://www.wireguard.com/install/) builds, which bundles a Microsoft-signed Wintun, and then subsequently run your own wireguard.exe. Alternatively, you can craft your own installer using the `quickinstall.bat` script.

### Optional: Creating the Installer

The installer build script will take care of downloading, verifying, and extracting the right versions of the various dependencies:

```
C:\Projects\wireguard-windows> cd installer
C:\Projects\wireguard-windows\installer> build
```

### Optional: Signing Binaries

Add a file called `sign.bat` in the root of this repository with these contents, or similar:

```
set SigningCertificate=DF98E075A012ED8C86FBCF14854B8F9555CB3D45
set TimestampServer=http://timestamp.digicert.com
```

After, run the above `build` commands as usual, from a shell that has [`signtool.exe`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/SecCrypto/signtool) in its `PATH`, such as the Visual Studio 2017 command prompt.

### Alternative: Building from Linux

You must first have Go ≥1.12, Mingw, and ImageMagick installed.

```
$ sudo apt install mingw-w64 golang-go
$ git clone https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-windows
$ cd wireguard-windows
$ make
```

You can deploy the 64-bit build to an SSH host specified by the `DEPLOYMENT_HOST` environment variable (default "winvm") to the remote directory specified by the `DEPLOYMENT_PATH` environment variable (default "Desktop") by using the `deploy` target:

```
$ make deploy
```
